( Applause )
>> Jason Thorpe: My name's Jason Thorpe.
I'm the Xsan Engineering Manager at Apple
and I'd like that thank you all for coming.
I know that after such a great
party it's kind of hard to come
in for a Friday morning session,
but thanks to all for being here.
I'm here to talk to you about Xsan 2.
( Cheering and Applause )
>> Jason Thorpe: All right.
So first of all, let's get just a show of hands.
How many people are sort of old salty Xsan dogs?
You've been around the block, you know you run
it, you think it's great, you use it today.
Okay good.
( Cheering and Applause )
>> Jason Thorpe: How many of on you are
kind of on the cusp of becoming Xsan users?
You know you need a SAN and you're
getting ready to deploy one?
How many of you are here because you heard
about it at the Podcast Producer sessions?
Anybody? A few?
Okay good.
So for those of you who are new to Xsan, let's
kind of talk a little bit about what it is.
It's a shared file system.
It's ideal for sharing sharing file content
in a high performance way for video editing,
for servers, for high performance computing.
Kind of anything that needs high
performance access to shared storage.
So what does that mean?
Well, let's kind of take a look at what
a traditional file server looks like.
So traditional file sharing environment,
we have some storage there at the top.
It's connected to that file server using fibre channel.
Nice big fat pipe between the server and the storage.
But those clients down there, which are trying very hard
to run Final Cut Pro, are attempting to get to that storage
over gigabit Ethernet and it's all going through one server.
So gigabit Ethernet is half the performance
of even just one fibre channel port
and chances are that server's connected with both.
So what's going to happen is, you might be able to sustain, you
know, a couple of streams of video, but more than likely,
you're going to have a couple of clients drop frames.
That's not what you want.
That makes your whole day bad.
So if we take a look at Xsan.
So in Xsan, all the clients are
directly attached to the storage.
They all have a nice big fat pipe to the RAID.
We have something that's very similar to a server.
We call it Xsan Controller.
It kind of hangs off to the side.
It's connected to the storage as well.
And it is in charge of dealing with all of the metadata
associated with the file systems; so, you know,
the file names, their owners, their
creation dates, all those things.
But it is not actually involved in the transfer of the data.
So another nice property of Xsan is that the
performance scales when you add storage.
So in this case, you know, we might have a work load that
requires more bandwidth than just one RAID can provide.
So we add another RAID and the pipes get fatter.
And again, you know, we can keep scaling that up.
You know, add another couple of
RAIDS and the pipes get fatter again.
Another nice property about Xsan is that you can add a
redundant controller to provide failover capability.
So if you look at the our first file server
slide, there is one server and that's it.
I mean that one server can be connected
to that one set of storage.
And if that server goes down, then
all those clients are out of luck.
In Xsan, you can have a redundant
controller, we call it a standby controller.
So if the primary controller were to fail for
whatever reason, the stand by controller just takes
over transparently and the clients
can still access the data.
So we've been using, you know, some Final Cut
workstations in these example slides here,
but Xsan is more than just a platform
for running video applications on.
It's a great platform for deploying scaleable and
highly available server services and it just so happens
that Mac OS X server with Leopard comes
with three of them right out of the box.
First one is a mail server cluster.
Yeah mail server cluster.
The second is an iCal server cluster.
How many have been are interested in deploying this?
( Applause )
>> Jason Thorpe: This is pretty cool stuff.
And finally, Podcast Producer.
And let's who thought the Podcast Producer
demos were just phenomenal this week?
( Cheering and Applause )
>> Jason Thorpe: So Xsan is a key
enabling technology for Podcast Producer.
We're going to like, you know, see all of
that in a diagram here in just a second.
So let's just take a look at what an example
mail cluster configuration might look like.
There in the middle you have sort
of your cloud of mail servers.
They're all connected to a shared back end set of storage.
And then you kind of have your
clients over there on the left.
So in between the clients and the cloud is a load balancer
that enables your mail clients to connect to this, you know,
mail dot example dot com, instead of having
to know that there are forks servers there.
The load balancer spreads out the
load across all of those servers.
If one of those servers were to go down, the load balancer
knows to redirect the connection to another client.
The mail client will retry and it
still can get to all their data.
So we're going to wave your magic wand here and
see that an iCal server cluster is very similar.
Not a lot of magic here.
This is all just set up in server
admin to make all this work.
And then if we take a look at a Podcast
Producer cluster, it's a little different.
So in Podcast Producer, you have a set
of machines that are uploading content
over the network to the Podcast Producer server.
The Podcast Producer server is then going to place that data on
the shared storage and then the sort of work flow engines,
the XRAID agents are then going to process
that data that's on the shared storage.
When it's done processing it, it's going to post it to,
for example in this example slide we have
just a web server posting to RSS feed.
The web server can pull that directly off the SAN.
You don't have to copy it.
Slide. There we go.
All right.
So let's talk a little bit just about the history of Xsan.
So we released the first version
of Xsan back in January of 2005.
It supported Panther.
There were a couple of updates along the way.
First really major update that we had was in June of
that year when we released Xsan 1.1 supported Tiger
and gained support for volumes larger than 16 terabyte.
Another software updater 2.
In April of 2006 we released an update that supported
RAID sets that were larger than two terabytes.
We kind of corresponded to a size bump on the RAID.
And then the next really big update was
in August of 2006 we released Xsan 1.4.
It was time to come out with the new MacPro systems.
It was universal binary and also
supported access control lists.
And then here's what you're all here to learn about today,
Xsan 2.0 which is going to be available later this year.
So let's talk about it.
What's new in Xsan 2?
So the first thing that's new in Xsan 2 is a new
Xsan application completely rewritten from scratch.
Yeah. There's a couple of people
very happy about that I'm sure.
The most important thing to know about
the new admin app is it's been designed
to streamline all of your set up and administration tasks.
So there's not a lot of hopping
around between panes anymore.
It's very task oriented.
And we have assistants to guide you
through those things that are complex.
So for example, in the old admin application you have
to know that, all right, to expand a volume I have
to unmount my clients and I have to stop the volume
and I have to drag some things into a storage folder.
You don't have to do that anymore.
We have assistants that walk you
through all of these multistep tasks
to make it really simple and much less error prone.
There's a streamlined presentation of
all the data and a streamlined work flow.
We've kind of gone for consistency of gesturing
across the application so that, you know,
every task that you have to do will feel very familiar.
And it's asset oriented.
So this enables you to really find the
things you're interested about very quickly.
There's a set of assets along the
left side of the application window.
You can find the thing you're looking for.
We have some filters built in to those assets that are kind
of similar to smart play lists in iTunes that allow you
to drill down and find the information
that you want really quickly.
And finally, I think this is going to be really interesting
for small shops, perhaps boutique video editing places
where you don't have a big network infrastructure,
but you want to leverage all the things that Xsan has.
Including, for example, access control lists.
That requires Open Directory.
Well, Xsan Admin can now optionally manage your user's
groups and network settings without you having to hop
around to different apps and know
how to set all these things up.
And we actually have in integration
with the server set up assistants.
So there's going to be some really nice out of box
experience for, you know, just bringing your whole stuff
out of unpack it, connect the cables, power it up,
and then very quickly you can have a running SAN.
So we don't have any screen shots of this
because it doesn't really do it justice.
I actually am going to ask Jason Townsend, who is our lead
Xsan Admin Engineer to come up and give us a quick demo.
( Applause )
>> Jason Thorpe: So can we please
go to the server projector please?
>> Jason Townsend: All right.
Can everybody hear me?
All right.
Let's see.
So I wanted to show you a little
bit about the new Xsan Admin.
As you heard just a moment ago,
we've got a new navigation style.
So on the left hand side we have the various
assets like, volumes, LUNs, and computers.
And then similar to using iTunes or other apps like
that, you just pick which asset you're interested in
and then you get a list of what applies to
that and you can do various commands on it.
So I'd like to first show you the we've also another part
of the navigation that's different, we've moved graphs
and logs into their own windows so, for logs
you just bring up a logs window and you can see
on whichever computer you're interested
in, the log that you want to see.
You can filter it.
It's probably familiar to anyone who's used
any of our other server tools how that works.
And we also have a graphs window.
We have a lot of graphs so you can see CPU
network traffic, fibre traffic, memory usage,
and you can look at different time scales.
You can see us doing some set up
stuff around this time probably.
And again, you can look at whichever
computer you're interested in with that.
Now I'd like to look at the Quotas
pane and we've got some data on our SAN.
And you can quickly see what different users are
using, how they're in relation to their quota.
You'll notice these little tick marks
here indicate where the soft quota is.
We now have separate control for hard and soft quota.
So you can let someone temporarily go over their
soft quota, but they'll still be able to add files
up to their hard quota within a certain time limit.
And we can also filter.
This applies across the whole app.
So if I wanted to look for, you know, the French
group for example, I could filter it that way.
If there was a lot more here, it would
probably be more compelling there; but anyway,
just imagine there's a whole screen full of quotas here.
And also we have filters here where we
can look at just servers or just groups
or who's over their soft quota or
who's reached their hard quota.
So if you know that that there's some kind of problem,
you can focus in on what you're actually interested in.
All right.
Now let's take a look at the computers pane.
We can see the computers we've got here.
And another feature I want to show you, that, again, applies
to the whole app, we have what's called the Inspector.
And that will show you more information
about whatever you have selected.
So you can see what software's installed, you can see
the network interfaces and how they're configured,
and, you know, a lot of information there.
See what the license is.
Now I'd like to just add a computer to the SAN.
And that's pretty simple.
I just click this plus button here and
there's a lot of machines on the rack
that I could add, but I just want to add that first one.
And we have the option of either entering the same name
and password for everything or doing it one by one.
In this case it's basically the same either way.
And oh, I guess I need to add a license for this.
Let's see.
I have this file here.
Okay. There we go.
So yeah. There's the one Jason sent me.
I guess I could just let's see.
I guess I could add a license and maybe retype that.
Well that's kind of crappy.
Maybe I'll just maybe I'll just copy it.
Does that work?
Oh cool. Okay.
( Applause )
>> Jason Townsend: Okay.
So there's a license and then I'll go ahead and add that.
And right now it's setting the license, setting up the
config files and there's a computer add to the SAN.
That was pretty easy.
But one other thing I want to show you,
just looking at how we deal with licenses.
Those are managed as an asset just
like everything else on your SAN.
So it doesn't like the ones we have
here, they're all assigned to computers.
But if I wanted, I could add some more
licenses that are just part of the SAN.
And they're not assigned to anything yet, but
when I add computers later they'll go ahead
and automatically assign as those computers get added.
I think I had another file somewhere.
Oh, here we go.
There's some more some more serial numbers.
All right cool.
So let's see.
How am I going to do this?
Okay, well I guess I could add one and then copy and
paste, but actually I don't think I want to do that.
That's gotta be a better way of doing that.
Maybe I can just drag this file in.
Oh, there we go.
Okay.
( Applause )
>> Jason Townsend: All right.
So now I've got some extra licenses available for when
I add more computers later and I don't have to worry
about individually assigning those licenses
to each computer anymore like we used to.
All right.
Thanks. Can we go back to the slides please?
( Applause )
>> Jason Thorpe: All right thanks Jason.
So the thing to take away from this is we've put a lot of
effort into making that Admin app sort of more streamlined,
easier to use, and we definitely
encourage your feedback on that.
So we'll keep that in mind for
later on in this presentation.
So next we have some improved performance.
So one of the things that Xsan is really, you know,
good at is, you know, streaming data from storage
to a workstation, like a Final Cut workstation.
We've actually made some performance improvements in this
area and are planning on doing more before we ship it.
But most interesting is that we've actually
added pretuned volume workload settings.
So one of the things that may or may
not be obvious to people in the room is
that if you have a volume that's
been tuned to stream big video files,
it might not be so great for hosting home directories.
There's kind of two different ends of the continuum.
Big files that are read sequentially versus small
files that are accessed completely randomly.
You need to set the volume up differently to work
optimally for those two types of configurations.
In the old Admin app you had to know a lot of magic to make
this happen and we've kind of made that a little simpler.
We've we're providing some sort of presets that will
allow you to select kind of at a high level what kind
of workload you're going to use that volume for.
It'll pretune a bunch of settings, both on
the controller side and on the client side.
And this is actually there's a plug in architecture here.
If you, for example, are a shop that deploys a lot of
Xsan volumes and you know you're going to be adding more,
it's going to be possible for you to add your configurations.
It's just going to be a P list to the application
itself and have it appear in that pop up menu.
( Applause )
>> Jason Thorpe: So we also have a new
data layout for streaming workloads.
We're going to talk about that just a bit more
here in a second with a little diagram.
But we think that this is going to be really
good for folks that are making the transition
to uncompressed high def video, want to work
with that and kind of like this online format.
We've heard some anecdotal reports
of kind of like a ceiling.
When you get to a certain number of
streams, like you kind of get stuck.
We're making some changes in the way we actually
lay out the data that are designed to address that.
And finally we have some more advanced settings for even
finer finer control for you guys to fine tune your volumes.
You're not going to have to edit config files manually
based on what a kbase article says anymore.
You're going to have some things that
are right there in the application.
So if you know that you have, you know, a folder that's
going to have a hundred thousand items in it or more,
it's going to be possible for you to tune up some
settings to make that work a little better.
So let's take a look at what the new data layout looks like.
First let's look at what the old one looks like,
the kind of standard one that we use today.
And this still exists in the Xsan 2 software.
So we have two movie clips here.
They're both uncompressed high def movie
clips that require a lot of throughput.
Each of them requires, you know, two full
Xserve RAID's worth of bandwidth.
So we have a storage pool here that's going to hold our video.
And we have that storage pool has an affinity assigned
to it so when people are storing their video files
in this their video folder, it's
getting steered to this storage pool.
So when we write the first movie, it's
going to get spread across all of those RAIDS.
When we write the second movie, it's also
going to get spread across all those RAIDS.
So the problem here is that if you're accessing those two
video streams independently, you're going to have contention.
Those RAIDS are going to be doing a lot of work.
The discs inside are actually going to
be seeking back and forth a lot.
And if you push this too far, you may drop frames.
So what we've done is the new streaming
data layout that is going to be enabled
when you select the appropriate
volume configuration when you set
up your volume is we actually split
that up into multiple storage pools.
But your users might be used to having one folder that
has an affinity for video to put their content in.
They don't want to have to know that
they have to put it in different folders.
What we've done is decoupled storage pools from affinities,
and now affinities can encompass multiple storage pools.
So now the user can drag, you know,
a movie file into their video folder
and the first one's going to get written
to the video one storage pool.
The second one's going to get written
to the video two storage pool.
They're both going to have the bandwidth they need and
they're not going to have contention for each other's drives
because we round robin those files
across those storage pools.
So the third big new thing that we have
in Xsan 2 is something we call MultiSAN,
and what this allows you to do is
provision your Xsan controllers.
So I have a diagram coming because this is maybe
a little hard to grasp just from the text here.
But what this really allows you to do is isolate
your mission critical volumes away from one another.
So if you have something that's really
important, like a playout volume,
you don't want trouble on another
volume interfering with that playout.
This allows you to do that while
still having global visibility.
So it allows you to have one machine connected to sort
of both SAN islands to move the data back and forth.
So let's take a look at a diagram here.
So over on the left we have a post production volume
with some Final Cut Pro workstations
and they have their Xsan controllers.
Then over on the right we have a playout volume.
And there's a playout server that's playing
out to air and it's pulling its data directly
from its volume with its own dedicated controllers.
In between there we actually have a data mover.
This is optional.
I wanted to point this out because I think there's a
developer opportunity here for a for a playout server
that can watch, for example a folder in the production
volume and do a rate limited copy up to the playout volume.
Using Finder to copy that data you're going to
really pound those discs to try to copy data fast.
So I think there's a developer
opportunity here in that data mover piece.
But as you can see here we've got these
two sets of control lists provisioned away.
So how many of you run multiple
volumes and you have like a pool
of like four controllers if you in your SAN deployments?
Let me see a show of hands.
A few people here.
Okay. So you may have noticed that when you bring
up the SAN you might have all four volumes
being hosted on one controller, right?
If you observe that behavior before?
MultiSAN allows you to sort of fix that problem.
You can say, well these two controllers
are only involved with this volume.
These two controllers are only involved with this volume.
So if you have a failure of a controller
on, say, the production volume,
neither one of the playout controllers is
going to attempt to take control of that volume.
They're completely isolated, but there's
still completely global visibility.
So everything can see everything else.
Finally, Xsan 2 supports Spotlight.
( Applause )
>> Jason Thorpe: Yeah.
So for those of you who aren't familiar with Spotlight,
Spotlight is the searching facility that's built
into Mac OS X. It allows you to find files based
on their content or any part of their metadata.
So Xsan is actually fully integrated
into the Spotlight search experience.
It works just like a local volume
and, you know, just what users expect.
And it supports all the standard Spotlight API's.
So if you, as a developer, are integrating
Spotlight support into your applications,
you're going to get Xsan search and support for free.
And finally this does require Mac OS X Leopard.
So it does not work with Tiger.
Tiger clients will work in a SAN environment like this.
The content will still get indexed,
but Tiger will not be able to search.
So I'd like to bring Bill Studenmund,
who's one of the Xsan file system engineers
who actually did a lot on the Spotlight
support in Xsan 2 to give us just a quick demo.
( Applause )
>> Bill Studenmund: Can you hear me?
Can you hear me?
Excellent.
All right.
As Jason mentioned, my name's Bill Studenmund
and I've been the engineer that's worked
most on the Spotlight in Xsan component.
And in order to demonstrate Spotlight for you today
I was going to take the role of a content creator.
Spotlight is really great for what it lets you do.
And so in this demo I'll be part of a group.
I have Alice and Bob as my co workers.
And we create various forms of content.
We have images, movies, documents, and our
collaboration is a lot easier with Xsan.
We have one volume; all of our files are there.
If we're one of us is done with a part of a project,
wants to hand it off, it's just there for the next person.
That's great.
The problem we've had is we have
all of our content on our Xsan.
That makes it kind of hard to actually find
things when you're not working on them.
We tried folders and then subfolders and subfolders
and that's great if however it is you set those folders
up is how you always want to find things.
But if the reason you're looking for a file, the keyword
is not one of the top folders, it can be like 20 questions.
With Spotlight it's a lot easier.
We just keep our files in folders on the SAN
and Spotlight will find whatever we need.
We also really like Spotlight because
it gives us very free form searches.
We just pull up a search; we like it so much
we've actually made some smart searches.
We we just have a smart search for images,
movies, documents; they're kind of boring.
We just we search for something and we see it there.
With Quick Looks you can go in and make sure
what you're looking at is the one that you want.
We also we love Spotlight because also it's free form.
Sometimes we got more than we wanted.
Well sometimes, if you're looking for one thing, we think
we know exactly what we want, we find something else
and realize, oh, that's actually a better idea.
So it can lead us in directions we
hadn't thought we were going to go.
So let me show you some searches.
Hello? Oh there we go.
Okay. Oh. I'm seeing everything on the
volume, including some of shell's files.
All right.
I just started a project on Yosemite.
So let's see what we have.
All right.
It looks like I've got some images, really nice
looking pictures, and it looks like I have a map.
Well, that's a good starting point.
That can get me going.
We can do other searches.
Say you're looking for an image
of someone surfing on the beach.
Not someone surfing in the water, not
someone putting the surf board in their car.
If you click in the right okay.
If you ah, I see what's wrong.
There you get the image.
Exactly what I was looking for, and then it went away.
You can also do other searches.
I have a project I'm starting where I need some sunsets.
So let's see what we have.
All right.
I have some images.
That's a good start.
But I was talking about this earlier and Alice
said she has a sunset she's been working on.
It's a Namibian beach.
It's beautiful.
She thinks it's just what I need, but I don't see it yet.
We love Spotlight because the searches are dynamic.
As any of us change content on the SAN, all
of the searches can see this and update.
So Alice has been working on things and,
oh, it looks like she just finished.
And there is her beach that she was telling me about.
I think that would really work for my project.
Not only that, but like I was saying, with
Spotlight you get more than you'd asked for.
I've got some other ones that I can flip through and these
aren't quite what I needed, but they can give me ideas.
So that is Spotlight searching on Xsan.
We really like it and we hope you will too.
Thank you.
( Applause )
>> Jason Thorpe: Okay, can we go back to the slides please?
Thanks Bill.
>> Bill Studenmund: You're welcome.
>> Jason Thorpe: Okay.
So those are the four big new things in Xsan 2.
And at this time I'd actually like to bring up Bill Hudson
who's the director of business and market development
for ProApps at Apple, who's going to talk to us about
how these new features can help the ProApps folks.
>> Bill Hudson: Thank you very much, Jason.
( Applause )
>> Bill Hudson: As many of you may know, we
released Final Cut Studio 2 just this last couple
of weeks, about three weeks ago.
And it is a comprehensive suite of applications that
include all of these products, Final Cut Pro 6, Motion 3,
Sound Track Pro 2, Color Compressor 3, and DVD Studio Pro 4.
This is an entire suite of applications
that address a lot of different disciplines.
And when you have so many different
disciplines in a particular suite,
naturally you have a work group requirement.
And Final Cut Pro and Final Cut Studio works
absolutely beautifully in a SAN environment
where many different artists can
work together to create projects.
Well Final Cut Studio is incredibly popular
with the individual users and the like.
But on Xsan it absolutely sings.
And I'm going to talk for a few minutes
about some of the types of deployments
that we see around the world with Final Cut Pro.
But first let's take a look at who these
customers are, well, and what they do.
They're independent productions.
They make, maybe documentaries, they
make feature films and the like.
A lot of the independent films that would go
at Sundance and the like, boutique post houses.
Now boutique post houses and independent productions
are the class of customer that typically is
in a small work group of about three to five or six users.
This is, at times well, it's a majority of the Final Cut
Pro user on Xsan falls into this category of about six or so.
We have many, and I'm going to show
you many that are much larger,
but we find that a majority of our
users are in that classification.
And Xsan 2 is going to go a long way to helping
these guys set up their systems and manage them.
So we're very excited about that.
Television production, shows like Scrubs and
others where, a lot of reality television as well,
where there's a very quick turn around and you'll have work
groups of anywhere from three and four people all the way
up to very large facilities such as Bunim Murray Productions
in Los Angeles which produces reality television.
Next, feature film.
I talked about that.
Typically small configurations of no more than
about four or five editors on a single system.
Broadcast created is a big market for Final Cut on Xsan.
These are people who do on air promos and
bumpers and station ID's and this type of thing.
Very very popular on Xsan with Final Cut Studio.
Broadcast news is an environment where we are
only really starting over the last few years
to make in roads with Final Cut Studio and Xsan.
Broadcast news is a very different requirement.
We rely on a lot of third party companies such as Building
for Media, Gallery, other companies like Grass Valley
and others for integration in this category.
And then there's broadcast production.
So long form television shows and the like.
So let's look at an actual deployment.
This is a schematic of NHK's production
environment for the Olympics in Turino,
Italy for the Winter Olympics about a year and a half ago.
And they relied on Final Cut Studio
and Xsan and a third party product
from a small developer in the UK called Gallery.
And Gallery has an application called PictureReady.
And PictureReady allows for live base band streams
in this instance it's the ingest from satellite.
HD streams that are coming in to
PictureReady running on a Mac, ingesting
through a Kona card to the DVC Pro HD codec.
The beauty of PictureReady is that it
allows editors on Xsan to instantly access
and edit these files as they're coming in.
Now you can imagine in a live sporting event
how important that is because you can't wait
to for an event to finish before you can start editing.
Well, the beauty of this is, of course
you can be editing as it's coming in.
They can online and do some color grading,
edit this thing, and send it out right away.
Extremely successful application and deployment.
They used it at the World Cup as
did a couple of other broadcasters.
Another high profile customer of ours around the world
is CCTV, Central China Television in Beijing, China.
And they were launching a television network
that was an HD broadcast facility and they needed
over 20 Final Cut Pro systems to be
editing multiple shows simultaneously.
And they turned to Xsan and Final Cut Studio.
And at that time they really had an issue.
They wanted to work in uncompressed
HD to get the highest quality.
But as Jason spoke of earlier, you have bandwidth issues.
High definition, HD, can range from 100 to
about 150 megabytes per second per stream.
And Final Cut Pro can allow you to edit
multiple streams on a single station.
So you can see that you do the math and you
are not going to get 20 uncompressed streams here.
They used the DVC Pro HD codec
primarily in addition to uncompressed.
Well Final Cut Studio 2 has a new codec
and that codec is called Apple Pro Res 422.
The beauty of this codec is that it allows you to edit
uncompressed quality at standard definition data rates.
It's a full raster or a full frame rate codec.
It's an eight or ten bit codec.
It's a variable bit rate codec.
And it allows you, as I said, to work in very high,
extremely high quality HD as around
20 to 22 megabytes per second.
So an incredibly efficient codec and
CCTV is incredibly excited about this.
They will be able to move all of these stations
to this codec for a higher quality output.
Next, traveling the globe, we're now looking at Televisa.
Televisa is the largest Latin American broadcaster and
they have deployed a lot of Xsan in multiple facilities.
Here we're looking at a render pipeline
using Compressor and Qmaster.
Now they have over 50 Mac work stations in
this particular facility and 10 work stations,
and those are the 50 doing Final Cut
editing, and then they have 10 work stations
that are doing graphics in 3D using Maya and After Effects.
Now the beauty of this is facility in this installation
is that we've got a rather large render farm of 12 servers
and this render farm allows them
to use Compressor for transcoding.
It allows them to render Maya and After
Effects projects using Qmaster
so they can use this entire render
farm for all of these purposes.
Now Televisa also has a lot of Discrete
or Autodesk products for high end graphics
and compositing using Flame and Flint work stations.
And Xsan is compatible with the StorNext file system.
And that allows them to connect
these autodesk work stations to Xsan
and allow Final Cut Pro to be a
feeder into those work stations.
Those are incredibly expensive work stations
that start at around $250,000 per work station.
They didn't want to they did not
want to scrap that investment,
yet they needed to connect their editing
stations into their existing facility.
And because of the cross platform support of
StorNext, they're able to do that very efficiently.
Now more locally here in the United States, we've got
CNN in Washington, D.C. And they're using applications
from Building for Media and their Fork products.
And CNN has been on the air for
nearly two years with this system.
They do a number of shows from Washington, D.C. all
on Xsan, all on Final Cut, using Building for Media.
And it is incredibly successful solution.
You'll notice that there are a number
of iMacs and PowerBooks in this system.
And they've got a server that allows
them to tie those systems in.
They're working off line in Offline resolutions.
But again, the Building for Media
applications work very beautifully
with Final Cut Pro and there's a great solution there.
There are deployments all around the world with
Building for Media running Xsan and Final Cut.
Now next, this is an interesting one.
This is a facility that has been in the
testing phase for a number of months in Asia.
And they had a requirement of connecting
two facilities, a production studio
and a post facility, by fibre over 30 kilometers.
And so they had some fibre relay switches in there,
what they call a DWDM switch; it's basically a repeater.
And they had two volumes in each facility.
Well now, with MultiSan, you have the ability
to deploy that in this type of environment.
If you lost that connection between those two SANs,
both can work independently without a problem.
Right? That link comes back up
and they're communicating again.
So in this instance here, if they lose that link,
they've got a problem because they're both
actually co dependant upon one another.
So Xsan 2.0 is going to be fantastic in allowing for this
type of environment to work very very efficiently.
And I think we've got one more.
That's right.
We if you were at the session a couple of days
ago that J.D. Mankovksy gave,
he talked a little bit about the Vicom VMirror.
This is a very successful appliance that has been
deployed in a number of important broadcasters here
in the United States as well as others around the world.
And it allows you to mirror your your Xsan entirely.
So broadcast facilities, they absolutely
need that redundancy.
They need the protection.
And also, quite honestly, you know, you
never know what kind of disaster may happen.
You may have power outages and things like that.
This allows a file that's being written to the SAN to be
simultaneously written to two distinct SAN mirrors, right.
So this is working today at a number
of facilities NFL Network for one.
The Korean Broadcasting broadcaster,
National Korean Broadcaster, KBS, in Seoul,
Korea is using this system very effectively.
They've got 19 Final Cut Pro work stations and they
are mirroring their SAN using the Vicom VMirror.
So these are just a couple of examples of a
large deployments doing different types of things
with very unique requirements and
Xsan gives you that flexibility
to customize your solution for your particular installation.
Again, thank you very much and I'll hand it back to Jason.
( Applause )
>> Bill Studenmund: Thank you.
>> Jason Thorpe: Thanks Bill.
Okay. So, we've gone pretty fast today, which is good.
We're going to have a lot of time for questions and answers.
So let's just summarize what we have here.
So Xsan 2, just a recap.
What is new in Xsan 2?
We have an all new Xsan Admin, we have improved
performance, we have MultiSAN, and we have Spotlight.
A developer preview is available today.
Some of you may have already downloaded
it earlier in the week.
I actually encourage you to download it again.
We found a problem with the original one that was posted.
Download it again if you've already done so.
You can get it from the Apple Developer
Connection and it supports Tiger and Leopard.
For more information, first of all for general Xsan
inquiries, feel free to send email to Xsan at Apple dot com.
That will reach the appropriate folks who can get you
more information if you're interested in purchasing Xsan.
For anyone who's interested in participating
in the Xsan seeding program for Xsan 2,
I encourage you to contact Shayaan Siddiqui
Shayaan, can you stand up and wave your arms.
This person can help you if you're interested
in being part of the seeding program.
And this will allow you to, you know, provide
a lot of feedback on the product early on.
And then finally for general information
about Xsan support and other resources,
you can always go to the Xsan web
page as Apple dot com slash Xsan.
And then I'd like to also take a minute
to plug some of our Xsan user communities.
We run a mailing list at Apple
called the Xsan Users Mailing List.
You can just go to lists at Apple dot
com at your web browser and, you know,
browse that, search that, and sign up for it.
And then also we have an integrator that
actually runs a community site calls Xsanity.
There's a lot of useful tips and tricks there.
Please, I encourage y'all to, you know, take a look at that.
There's always lots of good info there.